To focus solely on the detection part of finding patterns in stock data, a significant amount of prerequisite work is needed. This foundational work improves the efficiency and speed of data retrieval, where speed refers to the quick access and processing of data. Running a local platform eliminates the constant need to contact APIs for data retrieval and allows us to concentrate on making detection methods easily explainable, without worrying excessively about the noise or complexity inherent in the data [@Black_1986]. This chapter covers many aspects of this foundational work, including collection, processing, tool development, and visualisation.

All the services described in this chapter are developed in the Go programming language [@golang], chosen for its ability to easily parallelize work and provide simple memory management through its performant garbage collector. This approach helps save a significant amount of time where performance would usually come at the cost of debugging, and vice versa.

The infrastructure itself is developed around the idea of a microservices architecture. A web of interdependent microservices allows for the separation of each role in the preprocessing pipeline into its own service. By adopting this pipeline approach, we significantly reduce the risk of fallout, as this allows for the completion and testing of one service without impacting the rest of the project. In real-world scenarios, such an approach has already been observed to help reduce factors like technical debt and improve development velocity over time [@Lenarduzzi_Lomio_2020]. This underlines the practical relevance of the decision to adopt microservices in the context of this thesis.[^1]

[^1]: All source code, tools, and software projects associated with this chapter are publicly available on GitHub at [https://github.com/charting-wall-street](https://github.com/charting-wall-street).
