Each indicator definition is structured as a series linked to a specific key. Many indicators, like the Bollinger Bands with its distinct top and bottom bands, comprise multiple series. Calculating all these values is essential. Given that most standard indicators maintain separate formulas for each series, they can be efficiently computed concurrently.

\begin{algorithm}[H]
    \caption{Simple Moving Average Procedure}\label{algo:sma}
    \begin{algorithmic}[1]
    \Procedure{SimpleMovingAverage}{}
        \State $definition \gets \text{create new Definition}$
        \State $definition.Series \gets \text{create new map to store series of indicators into}$
        \State $sma \gets \text{create new series}$
        \State $sma.Step \gets$ 
        \Function{smaStep}{$p, params$}
            \State $size \gets params[0]$
            \State $acc \gets 0.0$
            \State $points \gets 0$
            \For{$i \gets 0$ to $size - 1$}
                \State $c \gets p.\text{FromLast}(i)$
                \If{$c.\text{Missing}$}
                    \State \textbf{continue}
                \EndIf
                \State $acc \gets acc + c.\text{Close}$
                \State $points \gets points + 1$
            \EndFor
            \If{$points = 0$}
                \State \Return $0, \text{false}$
            \EndIf
            \State \Return $acc / \text{float64}(points), \text{true}$
        \EndFunction
        \State $definition.Series["sma"] \gets sma$
        \State \Return $definition$
    \EndProcedure
    \end{algorithmic}
\end{algorithm}

In Algorithm \ref{algo:sma}, the Definition object contains everything needed to compute the SMA for a specified series. The $sma.Step$ function determines the simple moving average over a designated period (as defined by size). It aggregates the closing prices ($c.Close$) from the most recent size points in the series and computes the average. Missing data points are excluded. The derived series of simple moving averages is then housed under $definition.Series["sma"]$.

Ultimately, this approach enables the efficient computation of prevalent indicators and their corresponding series, leveraging the advantages of concurrent processing.