While the warm-up methods significantly improve the starting conditions for indicators, it is worth addressing the resultant accuracy of the indicators. By approximating the initial candle using heuristics or separate expressions, the accuracy of the indicators during the warm-up phase might deviate from a scenario where the entire history is available. However, as the indicators are computed over subsequent data points and more real data becomes available, this deviation tends to diminish.

The influence of the initial conditions wanes as more data points are processed, and the effect of this warm-up deviation on overall analytical results is typically minimal, especially for longer time series. Although we did not conduct an in-depth analysis of the warm-up's effect on accuracy, this approach involved using an extensive warm-up period. While this might have slightly impacted performance, the effect was negligible. The primary goal was to ensure accurate results, and we believe this extensive warm-up period achieves that. Furthermore, the provided global parameter for fine-tuning accuracy allows users to adjust the extent of the warm-up period, offering a balance between computational efficiency and desired accuracy.

Certain indicators operate under the assumption that the entire history is accessible and initiate from a previous value. Given the block structure at work and the unavailability of the full history, heuristics are employed to approximate the initial candle without actually having access to it. One method of procuring the first candle could be to simply retrieve the candle from the previous block, but this implies that each time a block is retrieved, all preceding blocks would need to be calculated – a time-consuming process even with caching.

As an alternative, separate expressions are used to compute the starting value of the stepping expression. Warm-up methods, which are frequently described in indicator definitions, enable this process. By utilizing the previous block for warm-up, a near perfect approximation of the initial starting value can be achieved. While this might require substantial computational power, it offers considerable improvement over calculating previous indicator blocks or attempting to guess the first value. Given that some expressions might not necessitate a long warm-up period, a global parameter is provided to fine-tune the accuracy. One such approach to handling this is illustrated in Algorithm \ref{algo:ema}, which demonstrates the computation of an Exponential Moving Average (EMA).

\begin{algorithm}[H]
    \caption{Exponential Moving Average Calculation}
    \label{algo:ema}
    \begin{algorithmic}[1]
        \Procedure{ExponentialMovingAverage}{}
            \State $definition \gets$ create new Definition
            \State $definition.Series \gets$ create new map of string to SeriesDefinition
            \State $ema \gets$ create new SeriesDefinition
            
            \Function{ema.Init}{$p, params$}
                \State $length \gets params[0]$
                \State $alpha \gets 2.0 / (\text{float64}(length) + 1.0)$
                \State $ema \gets p.\text{FromLast}(warmUpLength).Close$
                \For{$i \gets warmUpLength + 1$ \textbf{to} $0$}
                    \If{$p.\text{FromLast}(i).\text{Missing}$}
                        \State \textbf{continue}
                    \EndIf
                    \State $ema \gets p.\text{FromLast}(i).Close \times alpha + ema \times (1.0 - alpha)$
                \EndFor
                \State \Return $ema$
            \EndFunction
            
            \Function{ema.Step}{$p, prev, params$}
                \State $length \gets params[0]$
                \State $c \gets p.\text{Last}()$
                \State $k \gets 2.0 / (\text{float64}(length) + 1.0)$
                \State \Return $c.Close \times k + prev \times (1.0 - k)$, true
            \EndFunction
            
            \State $definition.Series["ema"] \gets ema$
            
            \State \Return $definition$
        \EndProcedure
    \end{algorithmic}
\end{algorithm}


In contrast to many indicators, there are specific ones that inherently defy this method of warm-up. A prime example is the VWAP (Volume Weighted Average Price). VWAP gives the average price a security has traded at throughout the day, based on both volume and price. As it requires ongoing computations over a trading day, to compute an accurate VWAP, one would ideally need continuous data from the inception of the security's trading. In the context of this service which operates on daily candles, this implies that VWAP will inherently exhibit jumps between these blocks of data. The nature of this indicator means that traditional warm-up methods would not suffice, as you'd essentially be trying to back-calculate from the dawn of the security's existence. Thus, it is imperative to understand and accept that for indicators like VWAP, discrepancies between blocks are unavoidable and must be taken into consideration when they are used.

