The Moment structure encapsulates the necessary candle sets for indicator block calculation, as well as a caching mechanism for data retrieval during the indicator computation. Since indicators align with the intervals they're calculated for, there exists a direct one-to-one mapping with the specified candle block. Indicators might require previous candles, necessitating the retrieval of the preceding block. Following the acquisition of these blocks, the computation commences.

The pseudocode representation of the Moment interface:

```
INTERFACE Moment
    METHOD Time() RETURNS integer
    METHOD IsMissing() RETURNS boolean
    METHOD IsTransition() RETURNS boolean
    METHOD Last() RETURNS Candle
    METHOD FromLast(index: integer) RETURNS Candle
    METHOD AtTime(timestamp: integer) RETURNS Candle
    METHOD Indicator(name: string, params: list of integer) RETURNS MomentIndicator
```

Dependencies of an indicator are unknown initially, hence they are fetched at runtime. A cache stores any indicators requested to calculate the desired indicator. To retrieve two blocks, the transition block is requested on top of the two earlier blocks. The historical blocks are necessary since the indicator can retrieve past candles, and candle blocks represent only the current time step.

When an indicator is requested, the same functions processing a request are utilized. These functions run recursively until all dependencies are calculated and then returned to the caller. Each result returned to the caller is stored in a local cache by an ID that represents the indicator.

Indicators are retrieved from the cache at every step of evaluating an ID. The largest overhead in calculating indicators was the actual hashing of the indicators. Many approaches were tested, but the most straightforward option of converting the parameters to strings and concatenating them with the indicator ID was the fastest to index the cache.

Another aspect to consider is that candles can be missing due to market closure or data unavailability. As algorithms are generally assumed to be continuous, this needs to be abstracted. Therefore, when stepping through the candles of a block for evaluation, it is first ensured that the candle is not missing. This largely eliminates the need to deal with them when calculating a candle and is only necessary when an indicator requires historical candles which might be missing. Depending on the expression for that indicator, the missing candles could be considered in the final result.

