In this thesis, we assess performance using a simple yet informative metric: the win rate. This is a commonly used performance metric in pattern-based trading and provides us with a clear understanding of the strategy's effectiveness.

The win rate serves as a performance metric, calculated by the ratio of successful trades to the total trades made. When no trades are executed, the win rate defaults to 0, indicating inactivity. A win rate of 50 represents a break-even scenario—equal counts of wins and losses. Any score surpassing 50 highlights a majority of wins, while an impeccable score of 100 signifies every trade being successful.

We can formalize the calculation of the win rate using the Performance function outlined in Algorithm \ref{algo:calculateWinRate}.

\begin{algorithm}[H]
    \caption{Calculate Win Rate}
    \label{algo:calculateWinRate}
    \begin{algorithmic}[1]
        \Function{Performance}{$wins, losses$}
            \State $trades \gets wins + losses$
            \If{$trades = 0$}
                \State \Return $0$
            \EndIf
            \State $winRate \gets \frac{wins}{trades}$
            \State \Return $winRate$
        \EndFunction
    \end{algorithmic}
\end{algorithm}

Performance metrics like the win rate are quintessential for evaluating trading strategies such as the triple barrier method and the hybrid-bucket approach. In the case of the former, emphasis is placed on the frequency at which the upper and lower barriers are breached. Conversely, the hybrid-bucket approach prioritizes the final placements of trades in specific buckets, especially the extremities.

Despite its simplicity, the win rate provides us with a valuable measure of the pattern detection strategies' success. However, it is important to note that this win rate does not directly translate into potential profits. A high win rate does not necessarily yield high returns, especially if the profit per win is small. Consequently, the results should be interpreted as indicative of performance, not direct estimates of potential profits.

Moreover, we consciously avoid discussions of returns or profit percentages in the results section for two main reasons. Firstly, a trading strategy based solely on patterns is generally suboptimal. Secondly, return rates could be misleading due to the aforementioned considerations.

The subsequent sections will delve into the detailed performance of individual patterns and random events, with a comparative analysis illustrating the difference between the two. These insights will feed into the final conclusions on the implications of using patterns in trading strategies.
